README.md, before:

# Initialize


## Using Docker (Dev environment)

Make sure to create a copy of `Dockerfile` as `Dockerfile-local` and `Dockerfile-production`.
This is to use a non-root user on production and a root user on development environements.
**Remove any non-root user related commands** from `Dockerfile` and `Dockerfile-local`.
This way, VS Code will be able to connect to the dev container with the full access to workspace file system.

Assuming all docker-related configuration on OS level is complete, run following commands.

Create and start containers of all services defined in `docker-compose.yml`
```bash
docker-compose up
```

If you are attempting to re-build
```bash
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose up
```
or
```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

Migrate
```bash
docker-compose exec app python manage.py migrate
```

Create Superuser
```bash
docker-compose exec app python manage.py createsuperuser
```

Bypass Email Activation for Superuser
(`is_active` field of user is initialized as `False` by default)
```bash
python manage.py shell
from core.models import KeiboUser
user = KeiboUser.objects.get(email='your-email@example.com')
user.is_active = True
user.save()
print(user.is_staff, user.is_superuser, user.is_active)
quit()
```

Reset Superuser password
```bash
python manage.py changepassword
```

## Infrastructure architecture

`Client`
⬇️
`Amazon DNS (Hosted Zones)`
⬇️
`Amazon CloudFront`
⬇️
`AWS Load Balancer`
⬇️
`Nginx`
⬇️
`uWSGI`
⬇️
`Django Application`

## Deployment using AWS

(Priori to the first deployment) test the production environment locally before deploying.
```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml down --volumes
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml up
```

1. Go to AWS. Create an EC2 instance. In this doc, I'll be using `Amazon Linux`.

Warning: *Make sure you are using the right region. It is important not to switch the region before all steps are completed to make sure all configuration is in order. For example, If you switch the region, you won't be able to see your EC2 instance previously created in another region.*

2. Configure a `security group` to attach to the EC2 instance. (ex: HTTPS TCP PORT 443,  HTTP TCP PORT 80, SSH TCP PORT 22...)
3. Create an `elastic ip address` to attach to the EC2 instance.
4. Connect to the EC2 instance's terminal using SSH connection (Putty required if Windows). Install dependencies and configure the environment using these commands:

```bash
sudo yum install git -y
sudo yum install -y docker
sudo systemctl enable docker.service
sudo systemctl start docker.service
sudo usermod -aG docker ec2-user
sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/latest/download/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m) -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
docker-compose version
sudo chkconfig docker on
```

5. Set up EC2 instance to git clone this repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/AndyLeezard/keibo-django-postgresql.git
```

6. cd into the repo folder, create a dotenv file and edit
```bash
touch .env
nano .env
```

7. Build and run containers
```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml up -d
```

8. Check docker container status
```bash
docker ps
docker logs keibo-django-postgresql-app-1
docker logs keibo-django-postgresql-proxy-1
```

9. Create a superuser
```bash
docker-compose exec app python manage.py createsuperuser
```

- At this point, the webapp is running OK. However, the connection protocole is unsecured (`http`).
To properly implement secure cookies (especially important for Chromium-based browsers), the `SSL` setup is required.

10. Buy a domain on [AWS Route 53](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/route53/domains/home#/)
this will be necessary to issue a `certificate` using `ACM`. (If I'm wrong and there's another cheaper way pls correct me.)

11. Use `ACM` to generate a certificate.

12. Create a `target group` that will be associated with an `Eslastic Load Balancer (ELB)`.
Type = Instance.

Warning: *Make sure to click on the `Include as pending below` button before saving. Also Make sure you're still on the right region. otherwise it will be invisible.*

13. On the EC2 page, look for the `load balancer` options and set up an `ELB` by choosing the `Application Load Balancer (ALB)` option.
By default, a HTTP listner will be created.
Add a HTTPS listener and choose the `target group` previously created.
Health check path: `/api/hello_world`

14. Create a Distribution on `CloudFront` that will link your `ELB` and your domain. Here you have the option to auto-convert any http request to https. The distribution is only active if it is connected to a url on `Hosted Zones` in `Route53` which is the AWS interface.

15. Configure the connection between the domain and your `CloudFront` distribution on `Hosted Zones of Route53`, .


## Update the code and re-build the container with the latest version
```bash
git pull origin
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml build app
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml up --no-deps -d app
```

## Troubleshooting database related problems

When removing containers, do not forget to remove the volumes as well.
Warning: this will erase all databases
```bash
docker-compose down --volumes
```

### Developing in the Dev Container

1. Assuming the VS extension `Remote Development` (pack of 4 extensions including Dev Containers) is installed, open the tab on the left side called `Remote Explorer` and select the container. Open (attach) in a new window.

2. In the new remote VS Code window, reinstall `Gitlens` and `Python`.

3. Configure the carriage-return git settings for Linux by running the following command and refresh the `Source Control` tab, this will resolve the all files showing as modified files:
```
git config --global core.autocrlf input
```

Check if all is good (the result should be `input`)
```
git config --global --get core.autocrlf
```

### Checking logs

Listen to a container logs

```bash
docker ps -a
docker logs --follow <container ID>
```

```bash
docker-compose logs
```

### Troubleshooting issues

- **Django can't connect to the database**: When Django starts, it tries to connect to the database specified in the settings. If the database service is not ready yet or if the settings are incorrect, Django will fail to start. Ensure the database service is running and check the database settings.

- **A problem with the Docker setup**: There might be a problem with the Dockerfile or `docker-compose.yml` file that's preventing the 'web' service from starting. For example, you might have forgotten to install a necessary package, or a path in one of your Docker files might be incorrect.

## Using venv instead of Docker containers
```
python -m venv venv
venv/Scripts/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
venv/Scripts/python.exe -m pip install --upgrade pip`
```

## Connecting to the admin page

Assuming Superuser is already created
```
http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin
```

Commit message:

Add troubleshooting manual for ec2 disk space

README.md, after:

# Initialize


## Using Docker (Dev environment)

Make sure to create a copy of `Dockerfile` as `Dockerfile-local` and `Dockerfile-production`.
This is to use a non-root user on production and a root user on development environements.
**Remove any non-root user related commands** from `Dockerfile` and `Dockerfile-local`.
This way, VS Code will be able to connect to the dev container with the full access to workspace file system.

Assuming all docker-related configuration on OS level is complete, run following commands.

Create and start containers of all services defined in `docker-compose.yml`
```bash
docker-compose up
```

If you are attempting to re-build
```bash
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose up
```
or
```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

Migrate
```bash
docker-compose exec app python manage.py migrate
```

Create Superuser
```bash
docker-compose exec app python manage.py createsuperuser
```

Bypass Email Activation for Superuser
(`is_active` field of user is initialized as `False` by default)
```bash
python manage.py shell
from core.models import KeiboUser
user = KeiboUser.objects.get(email='your-email@example.com')
user.is_active = True
user.save()
print(user.is_staff, user.is_superuser, user.is_active)
quit()
```

Reset Superuser password
```bash
python manage.py changepassword
```

## Infrastructure architecture

`Client`
⬇️
`Amazon DNS (Hosted Zones)`
⬇️
`Amazon CloudFront`
⬇️
`AWS Load Balancer`
⬇️
`Nginx`
⬇️
`uWSGI`
⬇️
`Django Application`

## Deployment using AWS

(Priori to the first deployment) test the production environment locally before deploying.
```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml down --volumes
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml build
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml up
```

1. Go to AWS. Create an EC2 instance. In this doc, I'll be using `Amazon Linux`.

Warning: *Make sure you are using the right region. It is important not to switch the region before all steps are completed to make sure all configuration is in order. For example, If you switch the region, you won't be able to see your EC2 instance previously created in another region.*

2. Configure a `security group` to attach to the EC2 instance. (ex: HTTPS TCP PORT 443,  HTTP TCP PORT 80, SSH TCP PORT 22...)
3. Create an `elastic ip address` to attach to the EC2 instance.
4. Connect to the EC2 instance's terminal using SSH connection (Putty required if Windows). Install dependencies and configure the environment using these commands:

```bash
sudo yum install git -y
sudo yum install -y docker
sudo systemctl enable docker.service
sudo systemctl start docker.service
sudo usermod -aG docker ec2-user
sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/latest/download/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m) -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
docker-compose version
sudo chkconfig docker on
```

5. Set up EC2 instance to git clone this repo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/AndyLeezard/keibo-django-postgresql.git
```

6. cd into the repo folder, create a dotenv file and edit
```bash
touch .env
nano .env
```

7. Build and run containers
```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml up -d
```

8. Check docker container status
```bash
docker ps
docker logs keibo-django-postgresql-app-1
docker logs keibo-django-postgresql-proxy-1
```

9. Create a superuser
```bash
docker-compose exec app python manage.py createsuperuser
```

- At this point, the webapp is running OK. However, the connection protocole is unsecured (`http`).
To properly implement secure cookies (especially important for Chromium-based browsers), the `SSL` setup is required.

10. Buy a domain on [AWS Route 53](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/route53/domains/home#/)
this will be necessary to issue a `certificate` using `ACM`. (If I'm wrong and there's another cheaper way pls correct me.)

11. Use `ACM` to generate a certificate.

12. Create a `target group` that will be associated with an `Eslastic Load Balancer (ELB)`.
Type = Instance.

Warning: *Make sure to click on the `Include as pending below` button before saving. Also Make sure you're still on the right region. otherwise it will be invisible.*

13. On the EC2 page, look for the `load balancer` options and set up an `ELB` by choosing the `Application Load Balancer (ALB)` option.
By default, a HTTP listner will be created.
Add a HTTPS listener and choose the `target group` previously created.
Health check path: `/api/hello_world`

14. Create a Distribution on `CloudFront` that will link your `ELB` and your domain. Here you have the option to auto-convert any http request to https. The distribution is only active if it is connected to a url on `Hosted Zones` in `Route53` which is the AWS interface.

15. Configure the connection between the domain and your `CloudFront` distribution on `Hosted Zones of Route53`, .


## Update the code and re-build the container with the latest version
```bash
git pull origin
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml build app
docker-compose -f docker-compose-production.yml up --no-deps -d app
```

## Troubleshooting 'No space left on device' while building a new docker image
Check the disk status using this command:
```bash
df -h
```

If really there is no space, you might have to prune old docker images.
```bash
docker systme prune
```

*You can also prune the volumens. Do this if you're not storing files locally (which you shouldn't be anyway, they should be in something like AWS S3) -Nitin Nain from StackOverflow-*

```bash
docker systme prune --volumes
```

## Troubleshooting database related problems

When removing containers, do not forget to remove the volumes as well.
Warning: this will erase all databases
```bash
docker-compose down --volumes
```

### Developing in the Dev Container

1. Assuming the VS extension `Remote Development` (pack of 4 extensions including Dev Containers) is installed, open the tab on the left side called `Remote Explorer` and select the container. Open (attach) in a new window.

2. In the new remote VS Code window, reinstall `Gitlens` and `Python`.

3. Configure the carriage-return git settings for Linux by running the following command and refresh the `Source Control` tab, this will resolve the all files showing as modified files:
```
git config --global core.autocrlf input
```

Check if all is good (the result should be `input`)
```
git config --global --get core.autocrlf
```

### Checking logs

Listen to a container logs

```bash
docker ps -a
docker logs --follow <container ID>
```

```bash
docker-compose logs
```

### Troubleshooting issues

- **Django can't connect to the database**: When Django starts, it tries to connect to the database specified in the settings. If the database service is not ready yet or if the settings are incorrect, Django will fail to start. Ensure the database service is running and check the database settings.

- **A problem with the Docker setup**: There might be a problem with the Dockerfile or `docker-compose.yml` file that's preventing the 'web' service from starting. For example, you might have forgotten to install a necessary package, or a path in one of your Docker files might be incorrect.

## Using venv instead of Docker containers
```
python -m venv venv
venv/Scripts/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
venv/Scripts/python.exe -m pip install --upgrade pip`
```

## Connecting to the admin page

Assuming Superuser is already created
```
http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin
```
